Puck Stehtscope Design
https://kindred.computable.io/covid

We are working on a stethoscope project that was initiated by Dr. Brian Lichtenstein on HelpWithCovid.com. Dr. Lichtenstein is a frontline physician in San Diego, and put out a request for a very affordable wireless stethoscope that could be made readily available for healthcare providers (HCP) during this pandemic. Desired features included Bluetooth capabilities to reduce very-close proximity exposure of HCP to patients with Covid-19, wide availability of the design, and a higher quality construction and sound than the low-cost stethoscopes widely in use.

You can find the page here: https://helpwithcovid.com/projects/252-bluetooth-stethoscope-pulse-oximeter
Our github is here: https://github.com/zipzit/Covid-Bluetooth-Stethoscope

PROBLEM:
Dr. Lichtenstein says that stethoscopes bring a healthcare provider (HCP) dangerously close to a person incubating covid-19. And one stethoscope is used by multiple HCP's throughout the day creating the risk of cross-contamination. The stethoscopes that are available to HCP's are either cheap, producing poor sound quality, or very expensive with better sound quality. When a HCP wears personal protective equipment (PPE), using a stethoscope can get complicated. In addition, sterilization can become difficult.

PROPOSED SOLUTION:
Our current base design is a stethoscope that can effectively listen to either heart beats and/or breathing sounds (20 Hz to 2 kHz), amplify the sound which is then played through a speaker. Our initially design is for an assembly that could be housed within a puck enclosure. This device will not feature tubes, binaurals and ear tips like traditional stethoscopes.

We are simultaneously looking into the inclusion of Bluetooth. The devices that we are aware of are neither natively Bluetooth or require an intermediary device i.e. smart phone used in listening. Dr. Lichtenstein ultimately desires a native Bluetooth device that any Bluetooth earplugs can connect with. The Bluetooth improvement can reduce the difficulty in listening to a patient's heart rate and/or breathing while fully dressed in PPE.

EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
Open-source design using parts that are readily available for purchase.
A stethoscope that provides high quality sound for any HCP that needs to listen to a patient.
Simple to use with lower exposure risk of covid-19 for HCP's.
Easy and safe to sterilize/sanitize.
Affordable to institutions and HCP's.
Donating 90% of proceeds to medical relief organizations.

OPEN LICENSING
Open source for hobbyist version.

As for the production version, we are unsure and not there yet.

TIMELINE
An estimate might be a month's time. We are currently in the prototyping stages in trying to develop a feasible device and test whether it meets our requirements.

Once we finalize which parts meets our requirements, we'll move forward with development devices so they could be field tested by medical professionals in real settings for feedback. After refining the device based on feedback, we will develop multiple base units fulfilling a major milestone.

From here, we may seek to further refine the device particularly adding Bluetooth functionality and etc.

REQUESTED AMOUNT:
USD $5,000

PURPOSE OF FUNDS:
The grant will be used to purchase parts, supplies and etc. to help us progress through three production cycles from an analog stethoscope puck that features an mic/speak to a version that features a DSP and then finally arrive to a version that features Bluetooth. The next cycle will build on the last one. We will move through each development cycle by prototyping, field testing and then releasing open source designs to the general public.

We may also seek to produce a production model design for mass production.

OBSERVATIONS:
Dr. Lichtenstein noted that many generic stethoscopes are poor quality. Higher grade stethoscopes are very expensive (USD $500+). Many stethoscopes do not feature Bluetooth.

By creating an affordable stethoscope, many HCP can own their own. 

And since the design includes a speaker, an HCP does not need to get closer to a patient that is incubating covid-19 or other infectious disease.

